It’s no wonder we’ve lost form over the past decade. It’s no wonder we cling on to 2016 and 2017 because those were the last times of concrete, palpable aesthetic. I don’t blame us for losing it, though. What place does form have during times as wicked as ours? 

I just listened to A$AP Rocky’s new album ‘Don’t Be Dumb’ and it felt like the epitome of formlessness. Every song, albeit great on its own, sounds entirely different. Even within some one song you might hear three or four, disjointed, ever-evolving, bizarre. 

But I don’t blame Rocky, either. Too many times I myself felt the urge to just go nuts, do whatever, because it feels like the truest reflection of our world: stupid, chaotic, doesn’t make sense. On a daily basis I hear about some incredible new technology that will finally bring me salvation. Next minute, I see an AI cat slapping itself and popping its mouth in a cacophony of visuals and sounds on Instagram. Then I read about Trump wanting to take Greenland while infants get torn apart by bombs. Then I go and talk to Gemini and it helps me build a website through HTML. Then I go to work. I eat, I shit, I fuck. I deal with the gradually worsening conditions to do anything that used to have value: what mortgage? what $1100 bill for a single doctor’s visit? what money from art? at least we’re about to have our first trillionaire. I go to sleep and not even wonder what tomorrow holds since it can’t be good anyway. 

This is not a world that has form, so how can you expect artists, people who have traditionally made sense of it, to find one for it? 

Yet we must. We crave form, because it helps us bottle down our existence. Feel like we understand what’s going on, That it might turn out okay, That we will somehow persevere! We were not designed to withstand whatever this is, and surrendering to chaos cannot be our only option. 

So it is our responsibility to bring form back into the world. Pick a fucking lane. Make a decision. Commit to it. Think about what you want to do and then do exactly that. You’ll have to tune out all the noise to see through it, but someone’s gotta start to, eh? 

max scherr Jan 18 2026